Hidden Incompetence:
This occurs when we attribute positive qualities or expertise to an individual or organization based on a single outstanding trait or their reputation. It's essentially a halo-effect.

Thinking about it from another perspective; Think about a Commercial Bank, and you can't help but think about all the cutting-edge, military grade, super-technologies it implements and the workforce of ONLY the world's greatest minds it employs. 
Yet, in reality, banks are some of the least secure organizations and frequently outsource development to contractors (in the individual sense here, not the overarching company) whose credentials aren't verified, who have access to source code and your data (making it easy for them to share with hackers -> making attacks like [this](https://www.bankvault.com/the-swift-hack-why-one-of-the-worlds-biggest-bank-heists-makes-a-good-case-for-bankvault/) possible) and who have no direct ties to the success of the organization (if the company goes down, they can just move on to the next customer, unlike permanent employees), most banks also run off COBOL, which was written in the 1960s and no longer has support (Unlike Java, Python, C#, etc.). COBOL is infamous for its "legacy" (IT way of saying "old AF") status and the fact that there aren't many COBOL developers around anymore (So many banking systems will be locked-in (without customizations/improvements) in a few years).
Why is this never noticed or considered? Because you don't want to, because you're placing your own personal security in the hands of the bank, so it's easier to believe that the bank is a "super-organism that can see in 4D and prevent crimes before they happen", than it is to recognize just how vulnerable your information actually is.
This isn't to say that banks don't invest lots of money in fraud prevention, cybersecurity, etc., but they are still as vulnerable as any other company, we just have a bias that they're the best-of-the-best. This is the definition of Hidden Incompetence. 
The reputation hides the inefficiencies and vulnerabilities in a sort of "halo-effect". This concept can apply to anything - including employees and contractors. Just because you believe someone/something is the best, it doesn't mean they are.